<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>

<head>
    <title>Linking Language and Thinking with Code</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../style.css">
</head>

<body>

    <div id="main">
      <h1>Code as Language; Code and Language</h1>

      <p>Readings and computational materials are organized by
      theme, though many different combinations beyond those suggested
      here are possible.</p>
      
      <h2>Themes</h2>
      <ul>
	<li>Language seems to be one means to encode thought; the
	same can be said for computer programs.  However, explaining
	language and its relation to codes and coding remains elusive.

	  <dl>
	    <dt> Coding, ciphers, Turing and language
	      <dd>"Code (or, How You Can Write Something
	    Differently)". Kittler. Pg. 40--47. <b>Software Studies: A
	    Lexicon</b>. Edited by Fuller. MIT Press. 2008.</dd>
	    </dt>
	    <dt>Language and coding both provide tools for thought and exploration.
	      <dd> <b>Computer Power and Human
            Reason</b>. Weizenbaum. Pg. 107 -- 110. W.H. Freeman and
		Company. 1976.</dd>
	      </dt
	  </dl>
	</li>
	
        <li> Both language and code react to and act on
	their context.  However, do they have the same status as 
	tools of thought?

	<dl>
	    <dt>Computer chatbot conversation partner encountered in
	    the computing workshop.  This relates to intelligence,
	    language, and the limits of science.
	    <dd> <b> <a
		href="https://cyborgdigitalculture.files.wordpress.com/2013/09/24-weizenbaum-03.pdf">
		Computer Power and Human Reason</b>. Weizenbaum. Pg. 1
		-- 16. W.H. Freeman and Company. 1976.</a> </dd>

		</dt>
	    <dt>A recent chatbot learned to behave badly.
	      <dd><a href
	      ="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tay_(bot)">Microsoft
		  Tay</a></dd>
	    </dt>
	    <dt>Sentences, whether in code or language, often have
	    truth values.  However, language and code are more often
	    used to do something --- to act.
	      <dd> <a href="http://www.ling.upenn.edu/~rnoyer/courses/103/Austin.pdf">"How
		  to do things with words", Austen</a></dd>
	    </dt>
	</li>
	    
	<li>How is language generated by machine different from the creative
	process? Can it generate new ideas in the reader?</li>

	<dl>
	  <dt>These algorithms generate poetry and prose via
	    algorithms and input data.
	    <dd><a href="http://nickm.com/taroko_gorge">Taroku Gorge</a></dd>
	    <dd><a href="http://bardcollege.github.io/workshop1/loveletter.js">Love letters</a></dd>
	    <dd><a
	  href="http://bardcollege.github.io/dialogs/notebook3.html">Markov
	  generator based on input text (Composition as Explanation,
	  Gertrude Stein)</a></dd>
	  </dt>
	  <dt>This one is too much.  Would be nice to find a short reading on creativity with
	    coding.
	  <dd><a
	  href="http://www-poleia.lip6.fr/~ganascia/Publications?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=draft_SwitchingCodes.pdf">"Logical
	  Induction, Machine Learning, and Human Creativity" in
	    <i>Switching Codes</i></b> Ganascia. pp. 140-159</a></dd>
	  </dt>
	  <dt>Is copying creative?</dt>
	    <dd>"Copy". Parikka. Pg. 70--76. <b>Software Studies: A
	    Lexicon</b>. Edited by Fuller. MIT Press. 2008.</dd>
	  </dt>
	</dl>

	
	<li>Can we view coding as translation from thought to
	language? Must you understand to translate?  How is this
	related to information?  </li>
	
	<dl>Translation and close reading</dl>
	<dt>How do you translate "Jabberwocky" to French?</dt>
	<dd><i><a href="">Goedel, Escher,
	  Bach</a></i>. Hofstadter. pp. 372 -- 383.</dd>
	    </dt>
	  </dl>

	<dl>Language creation and evolution</dl>

	</ul>
	  

      </ul>


    </div>


</body>

</html>



